

          Question List (Last updated Sept 29, 1997):

            1. What is SOCKS?
            2. How is SOCKS V5 different from SOCKS V4?
            3. Is SOCKS V5 interoperable with SOCKS V4?
            4. Where can I get SOCKS?
            5. Are there any SOCKS related mailing lists?
            6. Can I use SOCKS with Windows?
            7. Can I use SOCKS with a Mac?
            8. What do I have to do to modify programs to use
               SOCKS?
            9. Does SOCKS handle UDP?
           10. How does SOCKS interact with DNS?
           11. What is a single-homed and multi-homed firewall?
           12. Is there an RFC for SOCKS?
           13. What does SOCKS stand for?
           14. Why does the password echo when I run rftp?
           15. How do you traverse multiple firewalls (socksified
               SOCKS server?)
           16. Why do I see "inetd[]: socks/tcp server failing
               (looping)" in my logs?
           17. Can I use SOCKS with a OS/2?
           18. What causes the log message "incompatible version
               number: 71"?
           19. Can I put my application server behind my SOCKS
               Server?
           20. What causes the log message "Bind failed ...
               Address already in use"?

          --------------------------------------------------------

          1. What is SOCKS?

               SOCKS is a networking proxy protocol that enables
               hosts on one side of SOCKS server to gain full
               access to hosts on the other side of the SOCKS
               server without requiring direct IP reachability.
               SOCKS redirects connection requests from hosts on
               opposite sides of a SOCKS server. The SOCKS server
               authenticates and authorizes the requests,
               establishes a proxy connection, and relays data.

               SOCKS is commonly used as a network firewall that
               enables hosts behind a SOCKS server to gain full
               access to the Internet, while preventing
               unauthorized access from the Internet to the
               internal hosts.

               There are two major versions of SOCKS: SOCKS V4 and
               SOCKS V5. David Koblas is the original author.

               Refer to http://www.socks.nec.com/ for more
               information.

          2. How is SOCKS V5 different from SOCKS V4?

               The main differences between SOCKS V5 and SOCKS V4
               are:

                  o SOCKS V4 does not support authentication.
                    SOCKS V5 supports a variety of authentication
                    methods.
                  o SOCKS V4 does not support UDP proxy. SOCKS V5
                    does.

                    Refer to Introduction to SOCKS for additional
                    information.

          3. Does SOCKS V5 work with SOCKS V4?

               The SOCKS V5 protocol does not include a provision
               to support SOCKS V4 protocol. NEC's socks5
               implementation supports the SOCKS V4 protocol. The
               server supports SOCKS V5 and SOCKS V4 clients, and
               can communicate with other version 5 and 4 servers.

          4. Where can I get SOCKS?

               A SOCKS V4 implementation is available through
               anonymous ftp from ftp://ftp.nec.com:/pub/socks/.
               NEC's implementation of SOCKS V5 (socks5) is
               available through http at
               http://www.socks.nec.com/.

               Both packages include clients for telnet, ftp,
               finger, and whois. NEC's SOCKS5 implementation
               includes archie, ping, and traceroute.

               Several other clients are available in the same
               ftp.nec.com directory and at
               http://www.socks.nec.com/.

               Hewlett Packard provides an internal implementation
               of SOCKS, available at
               ftp://ftp.cup.hp.com/dist/socks/socks.tar.gz

               Many commercial products also include built-in
               SOCKS protocol support.

          5. Are there any SOCKS-related mailing lists?

               Yes, there are three SOCKS related mailing lists:
               socks, socks5, and sockscap. To join the SOCKS
               mailing list, send an E-mail message to:

                    majordomo@socks.nec.com

               with no subject line and a one line body:

                    subscribe <mailing-list>
                    <your@email.address>

               Correspond with members of the list by sending
               E-mail to:

                    <mailing-list>@socks.nec.com

               All three mailing lists are archived at
               http://www.socks.nec.com/

          6. Can I use SOCKS with Windows?

               Yes, NEC provides a Windows NT version of socks5
               server, available at http://www.socks.nec.com/.

               A number of WinSock DLL extensions enable
               WinSock-based applications to use SOCKS:
                  o SocksCap from NEC
                  o AutoSOCKS from Aventail
                  o Hummingbird's SOCKS Client from Hummingbird

               There are also socksified WinSock Stacks, such as
               Peter Tattam's Trumpet WinSock at
               http://www.trumpet.com.au/wsk/winsock.htm.

               Many commercial WinSock applications support SOCKS
               protocol.

          7. Can I use SOCKS with a Mac?

               Netscape's Navigator, NCSA's Mosaic, Fetch 3.0 (ftp
               client), Anarchie (archie/ftp client), Microsoft's
               Internet Explorer, and PointCast's client support
               SOCKS.

          8. What do I have to do to modify programs to use SOCKS?

               Refer to http://www.socks.nec.com/how2socksify.html
               for specific socksification details. You need to
               recompile the sources with pre-processor directives
               to intercept some calls such as bind(). The socks5
               library can socksify TCP and UDP applications and
               the SOCKS V4 library can socksify TCP-based
               programs.

               NEC's socks5 package includes some UNIX socks5
               client shared libraries that can dynamically
               socksify programs without modifying or recompiling
               them. Refer to http://www.socks.nec.com/.

               See also Question 6.

          9. Does SOCKS handle UDP?

               socks5 does, SOCKS4 does not. NEC's socks5 package
               includes a socksified archie client program that is
               a UDP application. The RealAudio Player works with
               runsocks (UNIX) and SocksCap (Windows).

          10. How does SOCKS interact with DNS?

               For SOCKS version 4.2 and earlier, SOCKS V4 clients
               MUST resolve local and internet host IP addresses.
               Configure DNS so that the SOCKS clients' resolver
               can resolve the addresses. Multiple DNS servers
               require special arrangements.

               For the extended SOCKS version 4.3, SOCKS V4
               clients can pass the unresolved addresses to the
               SOCKS V4 extended servers for resolution.

               For SOCKS V5, the clients can pass unresolved host
               names to SOCKS V5 servers to resolve. SOCKS will
               work if the SOCKS V5 client or SOCKS V5 servers can
               resolve a host.

          11. What is a single-homed and multi-homed firewall?

               A multi-homed firewall has multiple network
               interfaces and does not forward packets.
               Single-homed firewalls have one network interface
               card. Use a single-homed firewall with a choke
               router that filters packets not originating from
               the SOCKS server.

          12. Is there an RFC for SOCKS?

               There is no official RFC for Version 4 of the
               protocol. There are two documents describing
               Version 4: SOCKS V4 protocol and extension to SOCKS
               V4 protocol.

               There are three RFCs for SOCKS V5 related
               protocols:
                  o RFC1928 - Describes SOCKS Version 5 protocol,
                    also known as Authenticated Firewall Traversal
                    (AFT).
                  o RFC1929 - Describes Username/Password
                    authentication for SOCKS V5.
                  o RFC1961 - Describes GSS-API authentication for
                    SOCKS V5

          13. What does SOCKS stand for?

               SOCK-et-S - an internal development names that
               remained after release

          14. Why does the password echo when I run rftp?

               The password only echoes for anonymous ftp. This is
               considered a feature.

          15. How do you traverse multiple firewalls (socksified
          SOCKS server?)

               Using the socksified SOCKS V4 server, rsockd,
               included in the socks 4.3 beta release. See the
               README file in the release.

               NEC's socks5 package includes support to traverse
               multiple SOCKS servers. Refer to
               http://www.socks.nec.com/ for additional details.

          16. Why do I see "inetd[]: socks/tcp server failing
          (looping)" in my logs?

               When the socks server running from inetd receives
               too many connection requests, it displays this
               message. Run the socks server as a standalone
               daemon to solve the problem.

          17. Can I use SOCKS with a OS/2?

               Warp 4.0 has SOCKS V4 support integrated in the
               TCP/IP stack.

          18. What causes the log message "incompatible version
          number: 71"?

               socks displays this log message when someone tries
               to use the SOCKS server as an HTTP proxy. Ascii
               code 71 is the letter "G", the first letter of an
               HTTP/1.0 request.

          19. Can I put my application server behind my SOCKS
          Server?

               Yes and No.

               Yes. All internal clients can directly access the
               application server behind the SOCKS server.
               External clients that know about your SOCKS server
               may access the application server.

               No. Public Internet web servers cannot be accessed
               by external clients that do not know about your
               SOCKS server.

          20. What causes the log message "Bind failed ... Address
          already in use"?

               This log message occurs when the SOCKS server tries
               to bind to a port that another process is using.
               Typically, another SOCKS daemon is already running
               or inetd is listening to the port. Use the "ps"
               command to find and kill the other process or check
               /etc/inetd.conf for a conflicting entry.

          --------------------------------------------------------

          Contributors:

             * rk@Unify.Com - Ron Kuris, Unify Corporation
             * steve@syl.dl.nec.com - Steven Lass, NEC USA
             * wlu@syl.dl.nec.com - Wei Lu, NEC USA
